Well, in any graduation program, we get to the point where the principal talk or the
main talk is given, and this time we have a special privilege of having a long time
member of the governing body, brother Samuel Hood, speak to us, and the subject that he has
a very interesting subject any day now. Brother Hood, please.
You will be going home or to a new assignment. We want you to know that you will be missed.
It was good for the Bethel family to have you with us. It was a blessing from Jehovah.
Like a pregnant woman, your bellies are swell to the limit. All the signs tell you that
maybe is about to be born. You're rushed to see the doctor. He examines you, and you ask,
when? He says, any day now. Your minds and hearts are about to burst with spiritual
things to deliver to others. Yes, this is a day for delivering. Your spiritually
is contagious. When you walk into a room, you bring sunshine with you. Notice what
Jesus said to some of His followers. Matthew 5, 14 through 16, you are the light of the
world. The city cannot be hid when located on a mountain. People light a lamp and
set it not under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it shines on all those in the house.
Likewise, let your light shine before men, so that they may see your fine works and give
glory to your father who is in the heavens. First of all, your spiritual brothers and
sisters are in the house with you. Shine on them, but don't limit it to them. We want
others to see the light. For the past five months, you have been studying the
personality of Jehovah, and talking to Him by means of prayer. While it's true,
humans cannot see the literal person, Jehovah. For Jehovah God to set down a
description of Himself in spirit terms would be like trying to explain colors to a
person born blind. You have been asking for Him to help you in your studies, and He
has helped you. Without His help, you would not be graduating. Now you're ready.
As never before to let your light shine on your fleshly family members, your Bible
students, and your spiritual brothers and sisters. But don't make it so bright and
intense that you put out the eyes of those around you. Turn the wick down in your
lamp. There is no need to say every time. We were taught this in Gilead. We were
taught this in one of our Gilead classes. A member of the governing body called this
to our attention in a lecture he gave. You knew some things before you come to
Gilead. You knew God's name is Jehovah, and that it is unique, meaning the only
one of its kind. My name is Sam. Samuel or Sammy. It is not unique. There are many
others with the same name. I was named after my father's brother, Uncle Sam.
Did you get that? Uncle Sam. I did not name myself. A baby doesn't say when eight
months in his mother's womb. Mommy, when I get out, call me Sammy. God Almighty
chose His name, Jehovah. He named Himself. That is different. That is unique.
You, Gilead students, soon to be Gilead graduates, no Jehovah, but not completely,
not the whole person, just the fringe. Compare what you see to an ornamental edging of hanging
threads of a garment. You don't see the whole garment. Romans 11, 33 to 36 says,
Oh, the depth of God's riches and wisdom and knowledge. How unsearchable His judgments
are, and beyond treason out His ways are. For who has come to know Jehovah's mind,
or who has become His advisor, or who has first given to Him so that it must be
repaid to Him, because from Him and by Him and for Him are all things, to Him be
the glory forever. Amen.
Job 36, 26 tells us, Yes, God is greater than we can know. The number of His years
is beyond comprehension. No matter how much knowledge we have accumulated in our brain,
it amounts to a grain of sand on a seashore when we live forever. Forever, that is an
interesting word. It is defined as never ending, incessantly ceaseless. That's enough to
blow an imperfect man's mind away, but not Jehovah's mind, and he promises obedient humans
ever lasting, never ending life. I'm going to read a scripture to you without
revealing where it is found in the Bible. It is one of the first that captured my
attention back in 1956. Now, that was before any of you were born. With that I
heard a loud voice from the Sronesee. Look, the tet of God is with mankind, and He will
reside with them, and they will be His people, and God Himself will be with them, and He
will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more. Neither
were morning nor outcry nor pain be anymore. The former things have passed away.
Where in the Bible? Revelation 21, 3 and 4. I knew you would know that one. We were
limited to how much knowledge our brains can understand and sort out correctly. Yes,
one day we will know much more than we know today, but we will not know it all.
That's good. You will never be a know it all. Now is the time to let your light shine.
Our work at the present is to inform people that the kingdom of God, the heaven of
the government, is the only remedy to the woes of mankind that is causing so much
suffering and death. Inform people of the kingdom, but don't blind them with your
bright light of knowledge learned at Gilead. A little light will be enough for them to
see where to go. When I was in the army, in Germany, years ago, I drove a truck
with five men inside and M-101 howitzer artillery gun attached to the rear of the
truck. We traveled during a pitch dark night with no lights used. We could only
see the tail light of the vehicle in front. That was enough light to follow. Keep in
mind there may not be enough time left for your students and new brothers and
sisters to learn all that you know. Feed them not a heavy meal of steak and baked
potatoes, but an appetizer to stimulate the juices in the mouth. Any day now nations
will cause the peoples who are looking to them for guidance to think they have
finally established peace. The need for peace is already being talked about by
national leaders. We're not fooled by this sham cry of peace and security. First
Cecilonian 5.3 says, whenever it is that they are saying peace and security, then
sudden destruction is to be instantly on them. Just like birth pains on a pregnant
woman, and they will, by no means, escape. Jehovah will have the political powers of
this world turn against Babylon the Great. That's false religion. After they see the
hand-write on the wall for her and destroy her, sudden destruction, instantly. It
won't take long. Her supporters will cry out weeping and mourning and say,
too bad, too bad. But we will be thinking, I'm glad, I'm glad. Revelation 18
20 says, be glad over her. Oh heaven, also you holy ones and apostles and
prophets, because God has pronounced His judgment on her in your behalf. Are you
ready? Are you ready to be glad over her destruction? I think you are, but I can't
make that determination. We will know if we were ready as Jehovah
protects us when the nations turn their guns on us.
Now is the time for us to continue strengthening our faith and trust in Jehovah's
love for us. Study, meditate, associate, and preach the kingdom. Young David, when
facing Goliath had five smooth stones in his pouch, pouch of his shepherd's
bag, he only used one, but he was prepared in case he needed more. When we read
the Bible and meditate on it, our figurative heart absorbs God's word, like
putting symbolic stones in our figurative heart. This gives us the inner
strength we need to preach the kingdom message now and to proclaim the
hard-hitting judgment message that we may deliver in the near future. The
day for salvation will be closed any day now. When Noah had gathered all the
creatures that Jehovah had designated, along with all necessary food needed for
all in the ark, they went into the ark. Note it was Jehovah that closed the door,
not Noah. Genesis 7 and 16 says, so they went in male and female of every sort
of flesh, just as God had commanded him. After that, Jehovah shut the door behind
him. We don't take it upon ourselves to close the door to salvation. Jehovah shuts
the door and we can't push it open to let mom or anyone else in. You
Gileadites are professional preachers and teachers. You have received training
that not many of your brothers and sisters will have the privilege to receive
this side of Armageddon. Yes, without a doubt, you are wiser now than you used
to be, but not as wise as Jesus was when He said, what I teach is not mine, but
belongs to Him who sent me, John 7, 16. We believe Jehovah sent you to Gilead.
Keep foremost in mind that what you teach belongs to Jehovah and conduct
yourselves in a manner that displays that. Let your light shine not too bright,
just a flicker as needed before night falls, any day now. Don't worry brother,
heard those one people leaving because they were upset with your talk. That's
the students going backstage. Brotherhood, we love the talk. It was classic
heard and we really enjoyed the points you brought out. It was very comforting for
me because this is the first time we've had two Jeffries on the same program, but
speaking on behalf of the other members of the governing body, we know there is only
one unique Samuel heard and we love you for it. Well, now we have this part
where we give you some statistics before we get into the really interesting things.
The number of students in this class, 24, the average age, 42.8, the average
years baptized, 26.5, the average years in full-time service, 19.4, the average
years in special full-time service, 14.4. And then the number of languages spoken
by the 24 students, 17. That's very interesting. Another interesting feature
to our program today is that we have for the first time the opportunity to find
out how many are tied in with the live stream on JW stream. So we can actually
give you some idea of how many were listening live to the program. And we
thank those that are tied in for taking the time to put in the attendance
figures. So first of all, from Canada, Bethel, we had 398 in attendance.
The United States, Bethel, including remote offices, we had 5,463.
Then live audience via JW stream, 42,558 in 132 countries.
So that makes for a total of 48,419. Probably most of us on the program are so glad
we didn't know so many were listening. We have some greetings from near and
far, just quickly to go through some of the comments. The Australasia branch
send their warmest love and Christian greetings. The Benin branch refers to
Isaiah, chapter 26, verse 12. And there they quote Jehovah saying everything we
have, sorry, not Jehovah, but the Israelites saying everything we have done,
you have accomplished for us. And that captures the thought, doesn't it? Britain
mentions how the students will have beautiful memories and new friendships that
will continue on and they'll treasure for many years. Central African Republic
expresses their deepest gratitude because for the first time a couple from the
Central African Republic has been able to attend Gilead. The Czech Slovak branch
had 115 Bethelites there, send their love and greetings, the Dominican Republic,
France, Haiti, Japan, Kazakhstan, the list goes on and on. Mozambique, Peru,
the Philippines, Senegal, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, and also our brothers
in Ukraine. Let me read what they say. As you put your increased knowledge and
strengthening face to work, you will certainly prove to be a source of great
comfort to your fellow believers and your assignments. This is all important in
these very last days of the system of things. As we have witnessed in our branch
territory in the recent months of the ongoing war, we wish you Jehovah's rich
blessing. Don't we appreciate those greetings? Now we've got to the point
where we have the opportunity to present the diplomas and brother David
Schaefer, help it to the teaching committee is here with his high-pressure job
and he has the very interesting assignment of naming the families who,
the brothers and sisters, some of them have a little difficult names to pronounce,
but I'm sure you'll be good Dave. And then he has to give me the envelope
to pass on. So handing over to you. So first we have Brother and Sister
Ischi. They'll return to the Turkey branch. Brother Ischi has been appointed
to serve on the branch committee. Brother and Sister Matoška will return to
the Czech Slovak branch. Brother and Sister Mkumukely will return to the
South Africa branch. Brother Wade Drago will return to the Benin branch.
Brother and Sister Pelyas will return to the Peru branch. Brother and Sister
Pair will return to the France branch. Brother Pair has been appointed
to serve on the branch committee. Brother and Sister Piscopo will return to
the Australasia branch. Brother Piscopo has been appointed to serve on the branch
committee. Brother Ramos will return to the United States branch. Brother
and Sister Salvador will return to the Mozambique branch. Brother Salvador
has been appointed to serve on the branch committee. Brother and Sister Sohnto
will return to the Benin branch. Brother Sohnto has been appointed to serve
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother and sister Swach Sunt will return
to the Central Africa Republic Branch.
Brother and sister Swares will return
to the Columbia Branch.
And thanks very much, Brother Schaefer,
who will return to Wallwick.
Well, I have the pleasure now to introduce you
to the graduates of the 150-second class of Gilead.
And at this point, we have a letter that's going to be read
by Brother Jason Piscobo, who's returning to Australasia,
and he's reading this letter on behalf of this class.
Dear brothers of the governing body and the Bethel family,
with what will I repay Jehovah for all the good
that he has done for me?
How fittingly these words of Psalm 116, verse 12,
describe the sentiments of each one of us
at the end of this wonderful journey.
Our hearts are simply bursting in appreciation
to our loving grand instructor, Jehovah.
Prior to coming to Gilead, we strived to develop
a close relationship with our Heavenly Father.
However, over the past five months,
our eyes have been opened even further to God's glory
as we have delved into the deeper facets
of his personality through the pages of his word.
How fascinating it has been to see how Jehovah
is not a God of random acts, but one who causes to become
patiently revealing his diversified wisdom in so many ways.
As we contemplate the things we have learned,
our feelings are like those of Job who said,
my ears have heard about you, but now I do see you with my eyes.
What a privilege it has been to be instructed
by you dear brothers of the governing body,
your humility, modesty, unity,
and deep love for Jehovah in his sheep
were clearly evident in both your words and demeanor.
How touching it was for us to see, although you were so busy,
you selflessly took out time out of your schedules
to teach and encourage us.
We are convinced that Jehovah is using you dear brothers
in a powerful way to direct the earthly part of his organization,
and it is our prayer that he continue to provide you
with his dynamic Holy Spirit to carry out your assignment.
We have developed a special fondness for those selected to teach us.
Their teaching did not limit itself to the classroom,
like Gideon who said, watch me and do exactly what I do,
they were living examples of the things they taught.
Their council was always given in love,
and their experiences always accompanied valuable life lessons.
We love you dear brothers and will treasure the time we had with you.
We also love and treasure the dear brothers and sisters
of the United States Bethel family.
Our training began even before ever stepping foot in the classroom.
From the moment we arrived, we experienced your love and hospitality,
prior to coming to Gilead, we'd heard about your love,
but now we have seen and felt it.
You, brothers and sisters, truly are a gift from Jehovah,
and we thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
Now, as we move on to our various assignments,
the words of the Apostle Paul at 2 Corinthians 6-1 echo in our minds and hearts
as he urged fellow Christians not to accept the undeserved kindness of God and miss its purpose.
The purpose of Gilead is to strengthen and stabilize the brotherhood,
and that is our determination.
Like the Apostle Paul, we are determined to impart to our brothers not only the things that we
have learned, but also our very selves, all to the glory and honor of our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Please accept this expression of our warm love for you, your brothers, the 150-second class of Gilead.
Well, it's been a privilege to be able to come and visit you and give some lectures for your Gilead
class, and I've always enjoyed it, but now I have a special privilege to speak first time
to the graduates of the 150-second class. That seems an awesome thought, doesn't it?
And we're glad that you made it this far. We know there's been a lot of hard work that's gone into it.
So what final comments will we like to give you? We've had so many good things on the program,
already today, haven't you? And even if we were a little bit overwhelmed and you were worried about
certain aspects of the program, at least you can watch it on J.W. Broadcasting later
and get the main points. But remember, in the beginning, we talked about the need for us to be
modest, to be enthusiastic, but patient. And we remember how Jesus said a wonderful example for us in
acknowledging humbly that he had an assignment and that he put that assignment first in his life.
But he also showed wonderful balance, didn't he? When the Sorrow of Phoenician woman begged him to
help her because of her expression of faith in accepting him as the Messiah, he was willing to
be flexible. And she got what a wonderful blessing she got. And then the Roman officer,
the Samaritan woman, all these people were ones who really technically weren't part of his
territory and yet they got wonderful blessings because they asked especially for some help.
Well, what's the lessons for us? Well, maybe before we go on to the lessons, we could think of
some of the other non-Isolites who gained some benefit from Jesus' ministry. Who else would you
think of? What about Pontius Pilate and those in his court when he had all these discussions?
Well, now I'm not telling you that Pontius Pilate benefited from it, but we do see that he had a
wonderful opportunity, didn't he? Because he is a sort of person, a very violent man, a person who
at the drop of a hat had someone executed and yet what do we see over and over again? He seemed to
try and avoid sentencing Jesus to death. Well, we know that something impressed him. Again,
is this one of the times when Jesus spoke in Greek to him or some other language? Who knows?
I'm not speculating. But we do know that he was very impressed. And what about those that were
there listening? There was a lot going on. Well, remember later when Jesus actually died, there was
a Centurion. And the Centurion acknowledged that this was the Son of God. The study note, if you
check it later, says, maybe he was there with Pontius Pilate. That makes sense, doesn't he? He was
perhaps in charge of organizing this. So that man got a tremendous benefit from at least seeing
Jesus and hearing his testimony. And on his right was someone who gained benefit. And then finally,
what about those two Roman soldiers that witnessed the resurrection? Now, they didn't have a
chance to talk to Jesus as far as we know, but they did see the angel roll back the stone. What
is the impact that would have had on their lives? So thinking about these ones that we've just
discussed, what do we see? Well, when you go back to your assignments, as we mentioned,
there'll be the temptation to get yourself involved with everything he's going on to visit the
90 islands to get a ship. No, I know you're not going to do that. But the temptation will be there
to sort of see the need to help as many people as possible. But what's the point? Remember,
you have an assignment. Each one of you now has a specific assignment. Put that first, be faithful,
loyal to Jehovah. Apply all these things that you've not only heard in Gilead, but also in today's
program. And there'll be patient. Leave it to Jehovah. Remember, it's Jehovah's work, isn't it?
I remember one dear brother of the governing body made the comment once, you know, when he was
facing a difficult situation. He just looked and said, it's Jehovah's problem. And that's what we
need to recognize. Some things we leave to Jehovah. So as you go, we wish you Jehovah's blessing.
Remember, be enthusiastic. But also, be patient.